Thursday the 8th of June, present are Mike Nicholson, Sue Nicholson and today we are
interviewing Kelly Young. Hello Kelly, how are you?
Fine. Okay, so Kelly you're a member of Chepster Mencap.
Yeah. You've been coming here for many years.
Yeah. Would you like to tell us a little bit about
yourself to begin with? I just like coming here to see you all of
all the people that you've got. Is that at Chepster Mencap?
Yeah. Okay, so do you know roughly how long you've
been coming to Chepster Mencap? I'm not sure because it was at the old centre.
I think my mum found out from Wendy Perry I think or somebody and I got there and I
didn't know where I was and I was a bit nervous but now I'm used to it now. So I like to go
on trips and go places and go for a walk and stuff.
I've worked with you for over 10 years so you've got to be there, 10 at least.
Yeah. And I think you've been there at least probably
20 I'd imagine but we can find that out. Yeah, something like that, I'm not sure.
So what did you do before you came to the board school?
I'd just been around the shops and see my friend. I've got a mate who lives just around
the old Sunbridge Club, my mate Barry, I go and see my mate Barry and I've got another
friend called Gwyn and I go and see him, go shopping and then go and see his mum sometimes.
Yeah, so what did life look like for you before Chepster Mencap?
I just got really bored because I had nothing else to do. I just wanted to be with friends
and meet like you and your mum and Sarah and all that.
Yeah, that's nice. So it gave you some purpose to fill your days with.
Because I like to go out on the buses like we did last time with John Lewis and Alan
and I like to go out on the Monday night group but we don't do that anymore.
No, we do most of our evening works on a Thursday night.
Yeah and I like to work with you making cakes.
You have done that a couple of times with me haven't you?
Yeah. What did we bake last time?
I can't remember. I think it was cookies we did last time.
Yeah, I think it was cookies and I like to make something with you one day Mike again.
Okay, if you enjoyed that we can do another cooking session.
Yeah.
So you said, going back, before you joined Chepster Mencap you said you were quite bored,
you were just hanging around the shops type thing you said, occasionally going to the
pub.
Yeah.
So Chepster Mencap has been a positive thing for you then.
Do you want to discuss some things that you like doing with them?
I just like to go out in places and like with you lot and going out to a garden centre with
Richard.
Yeah.
Like we did last time, went out for a drink at the garden centre and I bought Richard
a drink.
Did you?
Yeah.
You're very generous aren't you?
Yeah, I bought him a drink.
Nice.
So thinking back over the years, what have been some of your favourite memories with Chepster
Mencap?
I like to be with the old staff and you lots well.
Yeah.
I used to see him and Marsh and John Lewis and all them lot.
Yeah, sadly they don't work here anymore.
No, but I do see John Lewis sometimes and he waves at me.
You still see him out and about?
Yeah.
That's nice.
And I used to wind him up like, I used to say John I got you tomorrow.
He's like, oh not you.
And he used to say it to me on the bus, get off my bus and walk home.
And I'm like John shut up.
And he used to say get off my bus, you can walk home.
He used to wind me up and Richard.
So you had good banter with him didn't you?
Yeah.
Nice.
Do you go anywhere else apart from Ken to the board store?
Monday, sometimes I go to my dad's to look after my dad's dog.
My dad's got a police dog, a big sensation called Skye.
But my mum's a bit worried me going in there in case she attacks me or bites me.
But she never does that, she loves me to pieces.
So I go and see her and I go call her and she comes up and she sniffes me and then she
makes this, she runs around me like I know what.
So I go and see her and then go and have her some nights, not overnight but have her in
the day.
And then I go and see my dad and obviously my friends and whatever.
Do you actually work at Pile Shop?
Yeah, only on a Tuesday at one o'clock, police at 3.30.
And how do you feel about working at the shop?
I like it, I like being there all day helping Elaine because Elaine makes me laugh.
Where she trips over and falls over and I do the chills and everything and then Sat
starts beating her up.
Oh does he?
Yeah, playing.
That's her son isn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
So it is only playing.
Yeah, playing he does.
So what do you do at the shop?
I do steaming, tagging, pricing and serving.
Do you like the serving?
Yeah.
What does that do for you?
I help Elaine and then she tells me how much it is or I look at the price and work it out.
And I put it in and sometimes I make a mistake putting the wrong one and Elaine has to sort
it all out and get it back to right.
That's good then.
Do you like the customers?
Yeah, yeah.
What other things do you do with Chepstam Incap?
Tuesday I come in here, up here with Annie.
I was here this Tuesday making teas and cakes for everybody.
I feel like you can come in and sit down and I like doing that because it's fun and I like
making a cup of teas and there's some people in there who know me and they're like, I can't
love you and I know some of them, I do, not all of them.
And then I go home and do whatever and then sometimes on a Wednesday, like this Wednesday,
I worked at the community centre with Annie making teas and cakes and doing soups and
giving it out to them.
So the two things on a Tuesday is the pop-up cafe?
Yeah, and then Wednesday at the community centre.
The community centre and that is, where's that to?
In Bulwark.
In Bulwark, yeah?
Yeah, by the two, by the Bound Barn.
And that's actually where you live, it's Bulwark, so you're meeting people from your area aren't you?
Yeah.
So you seem to have got quite a few jobs, you're basically working then whilst you're
at Chepstow Men's Cup?
Yeah.
Serving in the shops, serving teas and coffees, baking cakes, cooking lunch for people.
So did you ever have a job before Chepstow Men's Cup?
No, no.
Did you ever try to get one?
I did work in Tesco's, it was only for the tree, but I used to like helping, packing
people's bags and everything.
And I used to work in the other child's shop in town, but I didn't like it because it wasn't
fun, it was just like, do you know what I mean, it wasn't that.
And that's why I like working with you a lot, because you make me laugh and giggle and...
We do have good fun don't we?
Yeah, yeah.
So we work hard, but play hard as well.
Yeah.
Okay, so what do you get from working?
How does it make you feel when you've finished a day's work?
I go home and I tell my mum every day what I do and she's like, have you been out today
or what you've been doing?
And I'll say I've been out with Mike or cooking with Mike or going shopping or doing whatever
and mum's really happy.
Yeah.
Mummy likes it, mummy likes me being here.
So mum's proud of you?
Yeah.
Do you feel proud of yourself?
Mummy likes me proud in here to be with you a lot.
I think it's a great thing because it gives you the social aspects, you're seeing your
friends and you're meeting the community.
Yeah.
But also you're doing a rewarding job.
And I make a cup of teas and offer everybody as well.
You're very kind, you always offer me a drink every time I see you.
Yeah, but you always say no.
Because I'm not a tea drinker, am I?
No.
I drink too many of these.
Yeah.
Too many fizzy drinks unfortunately.
So okay, so we spoke about how you do a lot of working with Chepstom NCAP.
Yeah.
What about the social side of things?
So what do you get from seeing your friends here?
What do you mean?
I don't get what you mean.
So working, you're obviously doing lots of tasks and you're working to help these functions
happen.
But when you're not working, you're normally doing something fun.
What do you do with us that isn't working?
I don't know, I don't get what it means, mum.
No, I know, I'm trying to articulate.
So today for instance, when we walked into this room, you were saying that you've had
a lovely morning.
Yeah.
And what were you doing today?
Me, I was drawing some pictures.
You were drawing some pictures?
And I drew a picture of me and Keely, our withers.
Right.
And what is the picture going to be used for?
I'm not sure, it's in the envelope, I don't know.
Mike's put it in an envelope, I don't know what it is.
Yeah, I explained it, but I'll explain it again.
It's the Chepstow Festival of Arts.
Yeah.
So each year, Chepstow gets together and artists from all over Chepstow make different pieces
to be displayed in the town.
Yeah.
So what we were doing, we were doing self-portraits, weren't we?
So you drew yourself and they're going to be displayed on the church railings.
Yeah.
So it'll be an art installation of hundreds, hopefully, if enough people do it, hundreds
of self-portraits going all the way down the alley.
Yeah.
I think it'll be beautiful when it's finished.
So do you enjoy doing stuff like that?
Yeah.
Art and things?
I like making stuff and doing whatever, like making stuff and going out and doing stuff,
helping each other.
Like earlier, I had to help Tasha because she can't get the jelly on the spoon because
she's shaky and she drops it on the floor or drops it everywhere, so I fed her this
morning earlier with the jelly.
Yeah.
You're very helpful, aren't you?
Especially to the other service users that come here.
Yeah.
You're always offering or helping them.
And I like to wish I could push Tasha because I know I'm not allowed to push wheelchairs,
but I wish I could.
Yeah.
You're always eager to help, but that's just...
Because I like helping.
Yeah.
Because when we went out the other day and I think I pushed her out from here to the
end of the road.
Yeah.
And then somebody took her over to the other side, it was Keely, and said, you want...
And Keely couldn't remember my name, so she went, do you want Kelly to push you?
She went, yeah.
So I pushed her to the castle and then I pushed her back to the main road and then Annemarie
pushed her across the road and I said, Annemarie, I'll take her.
Are you sure?
I said, yeah.
And then I pushed her back in here then.
Yeah.
That's just a health and safety thing, mate.
And I just like to help.
You do.
I mean, I just like to push because that's me.
I like pushing.
I don't know what it is.
You're very tanky.
I just like pushing people.
And I wish I could push Jordan, but I know I can't.
No, his is an electric wheelchair.
So it takes a little bit of practice and stuff.
But if Sarah said to me, do you want to have a little go and I can help you, that'd be
all right.
I just wish I could do something.
I'm sure you would, but unfortunately with our job, we've got to risk assess things and
health and safety.
So...
I know.
So that's one thing I wish I could do to push.
I know, yeah.
But if you're fine to push Tash in a wheelchair because she lets you...
If Sarah said to me, do you want to push Jordan around here or down the bottom or something,
I would have a go with Sarah.
But I just wish I could, but I can't.
I know.
There's certain things that...
Because I like to help and push people and help people and wheelchairs and whatever.
That's me.
I like helping.
You can.
I'm sure you'd be able to do it but unfortunately we've just got to do certain things by procedure.
by procedure that's all. I know. But no worries we're just grateful that you're so kind to everyone that you come and see.
Yeah, because I like helping. You do. And I don't know why, I just like helping people like Tasha earlier, I've fed Tasha earlier
and I like helping and being helpful. Yeah. Making teas and doing whatever. You're a generous person aren't you? I know.
Okay, so we got up to, how many days a week do you come to make out? Thursdays, all day Thursdays. All day on a Thursday. Yeah. Nice.
So we did the art this morning. Yeah. Have you got anything else planned for the week? Yeah. Have you got anything else planned for this week?
I'm going dancing with Keely on Saturday. Are you? I'm going to Fort Sardine. Oh wow, what are you doing at the moment?
I'm dancing with all of the different groups. But Keely's picking me and my niece up from my house about past eight I think.
Yeah. Because she's got to drive from my house to wherever the coach is and then the coach will pick us all up and then drive us to where we've got to go.
And then we do a few dance and then get back on the coach and then whatever. And then I'm staying at my dad's Saturday night with my niece.
So what kind of dancing is that? It's like, it's widows with sticks and all and we do like the seven tunnel much one lock, garers, fairy, old town and everything.
Yeah. So is that what you'd call Morris dancing? Yeah. Am I right in saying that? Yeah. How long have you been doing that for?
I'm not sure because I'll tell you the story of this, mate. I went into town one day, one day where I used to live somewhere, I can't remember.
And I walked down the road and I was like, right, left, right. I was like, what the hell is all this? Jingle, jingle, jingle.
I was like, what the hell is all this? They're all camping at the school, coming down the hill with all the jangles and raggles and stuff.
And I went in there with them and I went, hiya, my name is so and so and so. I don't know if Keely was there, I can't remember.
So and so and so. And I stayed with them and mum run me, you're not in the way, are you? I went, no, not in the way.
And they let me play the tambourine. They went, bloody hell, Kyle, you've got the beat. I said, right, okay. So then she run me again.
No, I'm not in the way. And they took me to a, they was dancing at the Chepstow Castle up the steps.
Yeah. And I went up there and I said, can I come? Yeah, yeah, of course you can. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I went up there. But I didn't like coming down the steps because it's like that and I don't like it.
Bit too steep. So yeah, so I had one of the widows still with my hand all the way down the bottom.
And I said to my mum, I'm joining the widows. She went, no, you're not. I said, yes, I am.
I'm one of the widows guys. He's dead now. Right. He gave us a crawling tent, like a crawling tent.
And mum went, oh, what? We're in one of them. I said, yeah, yes, we're in one of them.
And we had the air bed. Do you know what the name of the air bed, Mike? Is this when you're camping with the widows?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. The first time widows. You know the air bed she lie on? The bed went.
And mum said, that is it. We're not doing camping anymore. I said, yeah, we are.
So now she's got a camper van now so we can do all the widows and everything.
Oh, so you're camping in style now. Yeah, yeah. Lovely.
Because all the widows took the mick out of us because when we all had the tent, we had everything.
And they all took the mick out of us. Oh, look at them. And they took the mick out of us.
And they took the mick out of us. Yeah.
One of our widows, Fran's partner, Mike, like you, tall like you, he's not here anymore.
He passed away. Two of my widows have passed away. And he was drinking like you do, Mike.
And he got up to have a drink. We'll edit that bit actually.
Yeah. He got up to have a drink. And he fell over all over the tent.
Went flying over the tent to go to the toilet. We were all laughing at him.
I've done that a few times at festivals. Those guy ropes are deadly.
Yeah, and he fell over and we were like, what are you doing?
And one of my cousins, he's my cousin. I didn't know he was my cousin.
Reece, who's my cousin who lives in Caldecon. I didn't know he was my cousin.
And he scared the hell out of me. I was only crying because he's my cousin and I'm like, like you would.
My other cousin, Terry, who takes the widows now.
We camped up like the river, like the river, you know these long rivers, what takes really too far down.
Yeah. And my cousin went, oh, I know what to do. Yeah. I said, what are you doing, Terry?
He went to the river to wash all this black off. And my cousin fell straight in the river,
holding a tree trunk, going, help, help.
And I think there was about five guys or six sides to drag him out because he's a big lad.
There was a couple of guys dragging him out, trying to get him out the pool.
So it sounds like you have a lot of fun with the widows on your trips.
Yeah, we have loads of fun with the widows and having a laugh.
And it all started by just asking if you could join in. Yeah.
And you're saying about he was at the river washing the black off his face.
It's because you wear all black makeup over your face.
Yeah, but we can't, we can't wear that anymore because it's races or sun ink. I don't know.
So we're not allowed to put any widows through sometimes like Keely does,
but sometimes we get told off by my cousin Terry because Terry takes it now.
But make use to take it, but you don't take it anymore because we left some of the widows.
Because they're black in and they all had the arguments and everything.
Keely will explain that to you, but I can't get the word out.
So some of the widows are left, but we've got some new people in there.
And some people just put like swirls and dots and lines across.
But I didn't last time and I got told off by my cousin.
He was like, you're not allowed to do that.
You've got to put purple or blue on your face.
Do you understand why they don't do that anymore?
No, I don't know. It's like a racist or something.
Yeah, you're along the right lines. Yeah, something like that. I don't know.
People of colour, people with black skin were often shown in films and stuff
as not in a very nice way.
White people used to put black makeup on to make themselves look like black people.
And it's not very good taste and it can be seen as racist.
But I know the widows, that was never their intention.
Because I think you're meant to look ghostly and ghoulish, aren't you?
You're almost kind of scary.
And my nunty does it with me as well. My niece does it with me.
But she done it in Chepstow one day and all her mates took the piss out of her,
laughed at her and made her cry.
And she won't dance around here. She's like 13, but she won't dance in town.
She's dancing on Saturday with me, but she won't dance in town.
No, that's fair enough.
Because I said, come on, Nomsie, let's do it.
We call her the Noms from the garden.
And I said, come on, Nomsie.
She was like, and her mates seen her and took the piss out of her and she went on crying.
It was boys out there at school who took the piss out of her.
How old is she?
She's 13.
It's an awkward age.
Yeah, because we was at the Widdabah, the Legion.
And she was doing a couple of dances.
And there was boys just sat by on the steps.
And they recognised it was her.
And they were just like, hahahaha.
Unfortunately, kids can be horrible, mate.
So she wouldn't do it and she won't dance around here.
So she'll just come dancing wherever you go in or whatever.
Yeah, and hopefully you can give her the confidence to maybe do it.
Yeah, and she won't do it around here.
Well, she might if you keep, you know, stick with her and say, you know, you've got your team around you.
Yeah, I do, I do stick with her, but she just won't do it around here because they took the piss out of her and made her cry.
People can be jealous, mate.
Especially when they see people enjoying themselves.
She said, I am coming back and I'm not dancing in town because my mates and all took the piss out of her.
You don't let it get to you, though, do you?
No, I don't. I just like, oh, shut up, get lost or whatever.
That's me. But I just I like looking after her and I love her because she's my niece and I make sure she's OK and yeah, and whatever.
Well, you look after her and hopefully she'll build her confidence back up to do it locally.
Yeah, I would like to, but and sometimes she gets so stroppy sometimes.
If you tell her no, she'll walk off and you just can't do anything about it because she just never listens.
And she's done it on Wednesday when we went dancing and whatever.
And she's done it in front of her dad and everything as well.
And she is a nice girl, don't get me wrong, but if you tell her no, she can't do that, she'll walk off.
That's teenagers, mate.
That's what she's like.
I'm sure as my mum will tell you, I used to say no quite a lot at that age.
Yeah, yeah.
I'll tell you what I do know about you with regards to the widows.
You don't forget a step, do you?
No, no.
You've got it absolutely perfect, haven't you?
Yeah.
And people quite often follow what you're doing.
I'm going to go and get Keely.
But before we go and get Keely, can I tell you I'm going to Disneyland Paris?
Oh, please do.
I'm going there for my birthday when I'm 40 this year.
Wow.
Because I've been wanting to go to Disneyland Paris for a long, long time.
And I've been asking my dad, when I used to live with my dad, I want to go to Disney.
And he was like...
So I said to my mum, I would like to go because I haven't been for ages.
And my auntie and my uncle from Kent, they've been there.
And I've got some pictures.
When we finish this, I'll show you some pictures of my auntie and my uncle in Disney.
And I wanted to go there, but I haven't been there.
So I said to my mum, I would like to go.
And she said, so we sorted out with my uncle.
And we're going Wednesday the 13th.
And we're coming back home on the Saturday.
Amazing. And that's for your fourth year of birthday.
And I can't wait to go to see Mickey and Goofy.
And we're staying in a room like this, but like a shed thing, if you know what I mean.
A chalet?
Yeah, a chalet thing, or whatever you call it.
But my uncle's got a drive to Disney. It's not that far.
And we're going down on there Monday or Tuesday, me and my mum from here to Kent.
And then my uncle's, we've got to get up early Wednesday morning.
Because he's driving his camper van all the way to Disney.
Really? So you'll be getting the ferry over to France?
No, not the ferry, getting a train.
Oh, you're going on the U-boat.
Yeah, but my uncle's van in the back is so bumpy.
Every time we go to the back, we should be doing this all the time.
Because it's so springy and you just keep doing all this all the time.
And so it'll be me, my uncle and my auntie and my mum.
And we're taking Janet's son's daughter Bonnie.
Because the other grandkids, Steve's, they've all been, but Bonnie hasn't been.
So Bonnie's coming with us.
And Janet, I believe, is your mum's sister?
Yeah, yeah.
Because I was in school with Janet.
Yeah, yeah, so they're taking me to Disney.
Oh, you're going to have a great time.
Have you ever been to France?
No, I haven't.
Oh, that'd be cool. So you've seen Disney and France at the same time.
Yeah, so I'm going to go and see Goofy and Mickey and have loads of pictures and go on the rides and everything.
Do you like roller coasters?
Yeah.
They've got some great rides there.
Yeah, I love rides.
Make sure you go on the Ratatouille ride.
Yeah, what was your favourite ride, Mike?
Probably the Ratatouille ride, I think.
Yeah?
Yeah, of all of them. That was good fun.
What was yours, Sue?
I like the scary rides. So was it Space Mountain? In the Dark?
Space Mountain. That one's, that's the American one.
I like the, like I...
It might be in France, but I remember that one in America.
Mike, I like the one where you can walk up and it's like where you get married and you go on like a train. I've seen that.
And you go in and you've got like a witch, like who's got married on top of the stairs and you go through, I can't remember what it's called.
Oh, it sounds spooky.
Yeah.
Kind of like a ghost train type thing.
Yeah, and then you've got people dancing at the bottom and you've got like, like if you went to somebody's wedding and all.
I know what it is.
I can't remember.
It's something like the Ghost Mansion where you've got holograms spinning.
Ah, I see, yeah.
Yeah, it's like, you know, haunted.
I know that when you're on, the haunted house Friday, I believe it is, isn't it?
Yeah.
Ghost dancing in the cemetery.
And then you go through, yeah, I remember that actually.
Yeah.
And the function hall, like the ball.
Yeah, and all the cutleries moving, isn't it?
And it's all kind of, the whole house is doing things.
And I can't wait when I go there now, I'm all excited.
Ah, dude, I'm so jealous.
Yeah.
Can I go to Disneyland for my four year, please, mum?
If you're a good boy.
All right, I've got eight years, eight years to wait, Cal.
I can't wait because I haven't been there before, but my auntie and my uncle's been there.
So when we finish this, Mike, I'll show you some pictures.
I would love to see some photos.
Yeah, if my auntie and my uncle's been there.
You quite often show me photos of your holidays.
Yeah.
And your mum writes in kind of like a journal for you, doesn't she?
Yeah, I've got a book at home and I write it all out, what I've been doing, and then put pictures on it and all.
Yeah, it's like a diary of all the holidays you've been on, isn't it?
I've got it at home, so I've taken it with me and then I can show you there, Mike.
Yeah, wonderful.
Yeah.
I'd like to see that.
Well, I hope you have a great time and I'm sure you're going to.
Yeah.
OK, this seems like a good point to have a little drinks break and then we'll bring Keely in to talk a little bit about the widows afterwards.
That sound good to you?
Yeah.
Cool. Anything to add, mum, before we go?
I'm just wondering, Keely, which we can talk about later, did you ever used to go to Saturday Club?
Yes.
And did you used to go swimming?
I did, but I'm not that strong swimmer and not that.
Is there anything you want to say about Saturday Club?
I love Saturday Club because I used to go with Sarah Marsh.
Yeah.
And we used to go swimming and we used to play tennis or whatever, I can't remember.
But we used to play and I used to laugh at Sarah because she was so mad as hell.
And I used to take the mic out of her.
I was like, what are you doing, Sarah?
And laughing at her and everything.
And I used to bring some food in, like, for other people to eat, like you and Mike and whatever.
And I used to do swimming, but I can't swim.
So the Saturday Club was where?
The Red Centre.
OK. And that was there for a long, long time.
I'm not sure how long that was, don't ask me, I can't remember.
OK. And what did you like about going to Saturday Club?
I just liked to be with my friend Sarah.
Yeah.
Yeah, because I like Sarah Marsh, but I do miss her.
Because I know we've got Sarah Gwell as well, but Sarah Marsh is more better and funnier than Sarah.
You have Sarah.
Because Sarah Marsh makes me laugh a bit more funnier.
But Sarah Gwell sort of gets a bit grumpy and a bit, you know what I mean?
She's not being horrible, but you know what I mean.
It's different personalities, they happen to have the same name.
Yeah, because Sarah Marsh was so funnier, made me laugh and everything.
But that one in there, she says, OK, can you stop doing that?
Do you know what I mean?
And I love her, but the other one's more better than her.
And I like the other Sarah.
We don't have to compare Sarah.
No, but you know what I mean, Mike.
I do, yeah.
I like you.
I think Sarah Gwell is one of the best kids we've got here.
She is, but I like Sarah Marsh more.
I love Sarah Marsh too.
I like that one more than that one.
I don't mind that one, but I like the other Sarah because she makes me laugh.
And when we went on the buses, she used to make me laugh and a joke.
But that one in there, don't.
She just gets a bit, you know what I mean?
Sarah Marsh is going to be thrilled that you enjoyed her company.
Yeah, and I do miss her.
So I think at this point, as Michael said, we're going to take a break.
Yeah, and then get Keely in.
Yes, and then you and Keely can tell us some more stories about the Widders.
Yeah.
And can we play this so we can show Keely later, please?
If we've got time at the end, I can play some of the interview.
You will get to hear it all at some point.
Probably when I've had a bit of a play around and Eddie's did certain things.
All right.
Maybe cut out a bit of our high drinking.
But no, you've been great so far, Cal, so we'll stop there, okay?
Yeah.